.\" Process with groff -man -Tascii unionfs.1
.\"
.TH UNIONFS 4 "August 2004" Linux
.SH NAME
Unionfs \- a unification file system for Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
Unionfs is not a command, but rather a file system.  This manual page describes
additional mount options that Unionfs supports.

mount -t unionfs -o dirs=/branch1[=ro|=rw]:/branch2[=ro|=rw]:...:/branchN[=ro|=rw],imap=forwardmap:reversemap1:reversemap2:...:reversemapN,[copyup=preserve,currentuser,mounter] none /mnt/unionfs

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dirs
specifies a colon separated list of which directories compose the union.
Additionally, read-only or read-write permissions of the branch can be
specified by appending "=ro" or "=rw" to each directory.  Directories that come
earlier in the list have a higher precedence than those which come later.

.B debug
specifies the FiST debugging level.  1 through 8 specify individual log-levels.
If debug is set to 11 through 18, the output will include debug-10 and all
lower levels.  If you set this to a non-zero value lots of output will be sent
to the kernel ring buffer, some of which may be sensitive. The default value
for this option is 0 which will produce no output.

.B delete
controls how Unionfs deletes and renames objects.  Possible values
are "all", and "whiteout" with the default behavior being all.

.B imap
specifies a colon separated list of files that are used as the inode map files.
You should specify the forward map first, followed by the reverse maps.  The
order of the reverse maps does not matter. The default behavior for the imap
option if left blank is to not use persistent inode mappings.

.B copyup
specifies which copy-up mode is used to provide copy-on-write semantics in
Unionfs.  Possible values are preserve, currentuser, and mounter.  Preserve
keeps the permissions in the higher-precedence directory the same as in the
lower-precedence directory.  If currentuser is selected, then the copied-up
file will be owned by the user whose actions initiated the copy-up operation.
Finally, mounter uses an owner and permission specified at mount time. The
default behavior for copyup is preserve.

.B copyupuid
specifies the uid of the copied-up files. This has no default behavior and
must be set if copyup is set to the mounter option.

.B copyupgid
specifies the gid of the copied-up files. This has no default behavior and
must be set if copyup is set to the mounter option.

.B copyupmode
specifies the mode of the copied-up files. This has no default behavior and
must be set if copyup is set to the mounter option.

.SH AUTHORS
Charles Wright <cwright@cs.sunysb.edu>,
Mohammad Zubair <mzubair@ic.sunysb.edu>,
Erez Zadok <ezk@cs.sunysb.edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR unionctl(1),
.BR uniondbg(1),
http://www.fsl.cs.sunysb.edu/

\"  LocalWords:  groff Tascii unionfs copyup currentuser dirs ro rw imap uid
\"  LocalWords:  copyupuid copyupgid gid copyupmode FiST tryleft Erez
\"  LocalWords:  passup setattr Zubair unionctl uniondbg
